Hey everyone, welcome back. Um, I
thought I'd do something a little
unique, a little different this go round
and that would be walking through a
guided practice step by step for one of
the common system design interview
questions and just let you guys sort of
watch over my shoulder as I talk out
loud and walk through how I would solve
some of these common interview
questions. And so I'm here, you know, we
have obviously plenty to choose from. I
actually didn't decide in advance which
one of these I want to do.
Uh, let's go ahead and let's go ahead
and do Yelp. I haven't thought about
Yelp in a while. Of course, I still
probably largely know how to approach
the problem, so it's maybe a little
unrealistic in that way, but it's one
that I'm I'm less familiar with at
least. So, let's do this one. Um, we're
going to design a local business review
site like Yelp. And I'm going to select
my level as senior so that we can get
some good follow-up questions here. Um,
all right. So, what is Yelp? It says
that the functional requirements are
going to be that a user should be able
to search for businesses by name,
location, which would be latitude and
longitude and category. Makes sense. Um,
users should also be able to view a
business and their reviews. So, I'm
assuming we search, we click on a
business, then we see a business's page
and its reviews. And then when I'm on
that page, it says here I should be able
to leave reviews for that business,
which will include a 1 to five star
rating as well as optional text. So,
pretty straightforward. uh a simple, you
know, business review site. From the
scale perspective, looks like we have
100 million daily active users and 10
million businesses.
And then each user can only leave one
review per business. Yeah, makes sense.
Okay. Uh we're going to walk through the
common delivery framework of course. So
requirements, core entities, API, data
flow, high level design, and deep dives.
For anyone watching this isn't familiar,
this is how we recommend you approach
any real system design interview. So
this is just going to guide us step by
step through each of these. All right,
let's do it. This should be fun. Um,
okay. Starting off, what are the
nonfunctional requirements of the
system? So of course the non-functional
requirements, these are statements about
the qualities of the system. So the
system should be able to whereas the
functional requirements which were given
to us are user should be able to
statements. They're like the features of
the system. And so it says here the
qualities that we should consider cap
theorem environment constraints
scalability latency durability. So these
are some of the common ones here. Okay.
So in the case of Yelp, let me zoom in
to make it easier for you guys. Um
starting off with CAP theorem. Do we
want high availability or strong
consistency? Well, let's talk about what
strong consistency would mean in this
case. If we had strong consistency, then
it means that if a user were to update
the description or something of a
business, say in Germany, and I'm here
in the United States reading from a
replica, then I should be getting errors
um until that data has fully propagated,
right? Um that doesn't seem necessary to
me in this case. In this case, it seems
totally reasonable that somebody updates
the description and it takes me a couple
minutes to see it. I can still see the
business with the old description. Or
another example is somebody adds a new
review. On my side, I see the old
reviews. I don't yet see the new review
until a couple minutes later, couple
seconds, minutes, whatever. That seems
totally fine to me. I would way rather
prioritize being able to see the
reviews, even if they're a little bit
stale, than making sure that they are,
you know, perfectly consistent across
our system and across the globe. So, I'm
going to say that availability in this
case, maybe let me be more specific. So,
high availability, you guys are going to
see how bad of a typist I am on the
spot. High availability is much greater
than strong consistency here. Uh what
else we want to consider? Environment
constraints. This would be like on
mobile devices and things. I don't see
anything relevant there. Scalability.
Well, they told us the scale. So yes,
our system needs to scale to 100 million
daily active users and 10 million
businesses. That's definitely going to
be an interesting part of the design. Um
of course, we're going to use these
non-functionals. Let me kind of break it
aside here. uh these are going to inform
where we go deep in our design later. So
what we're going to talk about later,
what we're going to focus on. So that's
really important in these system design
interviews. So we're going to talk about
scale at some point I'm sure. Um
latency. So latency is a good one. If we
look at our functional requirements, the
first one was about search. Whenever you
have a system design interview that
requires search over tons of rows, um,
especially with some complex search
parameters like a location, well, we
know that usually is going to take a
long time unless we put in place proper
optimizations. And so, it's a good thing
to call out here. I want low latency,
but it's not enough to just say low
latency. I want low latency search.
That's like the interesting part of this
specific problem. And I'm going to
quantify it, too. I want it to be less
than 500 milliseconds. So, that's going
to be important to me. Um, coming back,
we got security, fault tolerance,
compliance.
To be honest, these are important.
They're important for every single
product, but they're not uniquely
interesting to Yelp. Um, so I'm not
going to write them down here. I don't
want them to distract me later on. So, I
think I feel good with this list, but
let's let's find out uh what the system
thinks, if this is enough or if it wants
us to add something else. So, it's
analyzing that feedback right now. It's
looking at the whiteboard. We nailed it.
Okay, so great answer. We correctly got
them. It seems like that's everything
that it wanted. Um, so that's great.
Let's keep moving. Next up is our core
entities. So the core entities here,
these are like theuh nouns of the
system. They're basically the tables
that you're going to have in your
database. Um, they're the things that
are p persisted in your database and are
exchanged via your API. And so it's
really useful to think about these early
in the design. And it's it's just a
simple list, right? And so this is this
is super easy up front, but it gets you
thinking about the right things. And so
for us, the core entities of Yelp, let's
see here. Obviously, we have a business
b I spell it right? Business. Uh there's
reviews. Each business has reviews.
There's going to be a foreign key
between those two. Uh and then guess we
have users. Users leave reviews, right?
So similarly a foreign key between
those. Um
I think I feel good about that. There's
nothing nothing I think I would add. So,
let's see. These core entities should be
simple. You're not spending a lot of
time during the interview talking about
your core entities, but they are really
important for you to have that
foundational thinking. Cool. We nailed
it. Uh, great answer. Anything it's
recommending? No. Sweet. Okay. So, we
are on a roll. I'm perfect so far. Let's
see if that continues. Long may
continue. Um, okay. Next question here.
What are the external REST APIs that
your system will expose in order to
satisfy the functional requirements?
All right, so whenever we get to the API
section, we're just going to go one by
one through our functional requirements
and making sure that we have an A API or
sometimes multiple APIs in order to
satisfy them. Let me zoom in for you
guys. So our first one is that users
should be able to search for businesses
by name, location, and category. So
let's create an API endpoint for that.
It's going to be a search endpoint. Uh,
this is going to be a git. I'm going to
use REST here. You're almost always
going to use REST to be honest. Um,
obviously maybe not every time, but if
you're not sure, REST is a a great place
to start. So, I'm going to use a REST
API. I want to search what am I
searching for? I'm searching for
businesses. Now, you'll note here that I
made this plural. This is proper REST
semantics. You have plural nouns as your
resource names. So, I'm searching. I'm
getting What am I getting? I'm getting
businesses. And then we probably want
some query parameters here because we
talked about a couple of things. We said
that there was category. So we're going
to be searching on some category. Uh
we're also going to have a location
which we said was going to be a latitude
and a longitude. And then like a name,
the name of the business. And so I'm I'm
using this syntax just to denote that we
would have something there, you know,
like this would be category of
food, restaurant, whatever, right? But
I'm just putting that in there as a as a
placeholder. Um, and then what would
this thing return? Well, this thing is
going to return a list of businesses.
Maybe even more accurately, would we
return the full business details and
business information in our search
results? Probably not. If you've used
not only Yelp, but any of these services
that require search, they show you just
like a little bit of information. Like
maybe it's just going to show us the
name of the business, the image, and a
short description, right? It's not going
to tell us all the things that are in
the business table. So, I use TypeScript
notation to do this, but you can do this
however you want really. But, we're
going to return partial businesses. This
will keep our payload small um so that
it's it's even quicker. Okay, feel good
about that. There's our there's our
search endpoint there. Now, going back
to our functional requirements, users
should be able to view businesses and
their reviews. So, let's come back to
our API. The next one is view businesses
and their reviews. And so again, this is
going to be a get request because we're
getting resources. And what are we
getting? Well, you might be tempted to
say like, well, actually,
let me let me not do that yet. We're
getting a business. So, we're getting
businesses, plural noun again, right?
Um, and then we need the ID of the
business. And so you'll see here this
denotes that we would put the ID here.
In reality, maybe it's something like
this, right? Colon ID says that we put
the ID there. And this is what's called
a path parameter. Whereas this was a
query parameter. These are optional.
That's why we used query parameters.
This is mandatory. You can't view a
business without an ID. So you might
have been tempted to do something like
this, like could this work? Yeah, of
course it could work. Um, it's just not
proper restful semantics. And you might
have an interviewer who cares. And so
what you should think about is that if
this parameter is required, I'm going to
use a path parameter. If it's optional,
I'm going to use query parameters. And
so in our case, we want to get the
business for this given ID. And what's
it going to return? It's going to return
the business. And it should also return
those list of reviews, right? Um, okay.
So two of our three done. The next one
is the user should be able to leave
reviews on a business. And so we can say
post a review. You can tell my use of
verb there is intentional because our
endpoint is now a post endpoint because
we're creating a resource. And what
resource are we creating? Um well, we're
creating a review resource. But we're
creating a review on a business. And so
watch this. The proper restful semantics
here is that I have a business. I need
to know which business. And then I have
reviews plural. And so I'm creating a
review for the business with this ID.
This is how we uh you know actually
don't know the the proper restful
terminology for this but like kind of
stacking or chaining our resource names
like this um so that there's this direct
relationship. So I need to know which
business and its ID and the resource
that I'm creating is the reviews and
then we should outline our post body.
What's in here? What happens when we
post this? What's in the body that we
send in the request? Um what did we say?
We're going to have a rating which is 1
to five. That's going to be mandatory.
And then we're going to have that
optional text review like, "Wow, I loved
it. It was so great." Right? That sort
of thing. Um,
okay, let me just look at it. Yeah, I
feel good about it. Um, and this could
return the review itself. That's common.
It could just return a 200 if it's
successful or of course a different
message if it's not. And maybe one other
thing that I'll call out is that like
this one
needs authentication. Needs you need to
be authenticated.
This is kind of a fun thing to call out
in the interview also. So, these ones, I
don't really care if free users or
non-logged users search for businesses
is probably good for my business. But,
in order to create a review, I want you
to be logged in. So, I'm just going to
label it like that. Um, okay. Enough of
me ranting. Let's see how we did here.
Did we go three for three or have we
made our first mistake? Time is going to
tell.
Okay, we got it. um correctly got them.
But we have some suggestions here.
Consider adding pageionation parameters
like page and limit to your search
endpoint since the business searches.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So that was a
mistake by me. This could return
millions of resources. And so we should
definitely have pageionation here. Of
course, right? So maybe I'm going to
have a page and then maybe I'm going to
have a limit uh you know like how many
per page. So let's add that. That's good
feedback. The view business endpoints
might benefit from pageionation for the
reviews in particular. Totally. Popular
reviews could have hundreds impractical
to load at once. Yeah, of course. Let's
see what happens if I I learn more there
too.
Yeah, we have performance issues if we
have all the reviews.
Yeah. Okay. Um,
so I think what I want to do instead
actually is that I'm going to do this.
I'm going to do businesses slash id
reviews and that's going to return the
reviews. So I'm going two endpoints here
and they're going to be called for my
front end in parallel. But that way I'm
going to put pageionation on this one so
I don't have to put pageionation on the
other one. And this is going to be nice
too because you can think about like
lazy loading. We're going to load the
business details right away. And then
below it there could be some skeleton
waiting to load the actual uh reviews as
they come in because they might take a
little bit longer. So, let me try again
with that change. See if it likes it. I
know that I already got it perfect, but
uh I want to just get no more
suggestions there.
Cool. Uh looks like we crushed it. Okay.
Uh next up. So, we did the requirements,
we did the core entities, we did the
APIs. Now, let's go over to that highle
design. And so the first question in our
highle design, we map these one to one
to our functional requirements and to
our API endpoints. And so that first one
is how will users be able to search for
a business? Um, so let's get in here and
let's do some do some fun drawing. This
is my favorite part getting to draw
things. I think it's the enjoyable bit
here on the whiteboard. So I'm going to
have a client. I'm going to add an API
gateway. This might be a little
premature. My API gateway's
responsibility is to take incoming
requests from the client and route them
to the right micros service. I know that
I'm going to have more than one service
even though at this point in my design
I'm only going to have one. So I'm just
going to put it there anyway to save me
the drawing later on. Um make these
birectional. So I'm going to API gateway
and then I'm going to have a
business crud service.
So this is going to be responsible or
actually let me just have a business
service because specifically it's
handling search right now. Um the
creation of businesses and all that is
out of scope. It wasn't in our
functional requirements. And I'm going
to need some business DB.
And so what's in our business DB? Uh
we're going to have a business. It's
going to have an ID, of course. It's
going to have a name. It's going to have
a description.
It's going to have an address. It's
going to have a lat long. What am I
missing? It's probably going to have an
S3 link. A bit out of scope there, but
for any images. Um, of course, we'll
have reviews, but we'll bring that in
later. So, there's some my basic stuff.
Now, when a user wants to search, we
could do something fancy, but in the
beginning here, it's just our highle
design. So, maybe all that we do is we
just query our our database directly
here. So we just have like some select
star from business where category. Oh
well that teaches me that I was missing
something. Category
you know equals whatever location but
greater than and less than all of these
things right so we can have a simple
query there. Um all right let me let me
try to explain this really briefly. All
right. So, in order to search for
businesses, the client is going to make
a request to the API gateway with our
API endpoint to search. The gateway is
going to route that to our business
service. Our business service is then
going to formulate a query where that
query is going to be able to query our
business database for those three
parameters that we cared about, the
category, the name, and the latitude and
longitude. Now, importantly, this isn't
very efficient yet. Of course, the more
rows that we have and having this
two-dimensional query even with indexing
on location isn't going to be optimal.
Um, but we'll come back later and and
make it better as we go. This is a
simple design for now. That should
satisfy this question.
I was a little verbose there maybe, but
you know, when you're on the spot, what
are you going to do? So, let's see if it
liked it enough. Anyway, so user
searching for businesses, just a simple
highle design.
Great. Offer letter incoming. Uh,
consider adding rating information to
your business table. You'll want to
search and filter for that. Fair enough.
Yeah. Um, so I probably should have a
Let me move this over. I should probably
have an average rating here, right?
That's something that would be important
in the search results. Something we
might even talk about. Um, okay. Let's
keep moving. I like it.
Um, how will users be able to view a
business details and its reviews? Well,
the first thing is that we need to have
a review table in the first place. So,
I'm going to have a review. A review is
going to have an ID. It's going to have
a user ID. It's going to have the
business ID. It's going to have the
rating and it's going to have the text
optionally. And if I've done that, then
obviously have a user table. That user
table is going to have an ID. Everything
else in the user table I don't care
about. My interviewer doesn't care
about. We all know hashed password and
some account settings and stuff. All
good. Um, this one's actually
straightforward though. We don't need to
change anything because we're just going
to query now just a different query,
right? So from businesses where business
ID equals whatever that ID is. Um, and
then you know we'll join with the
business table. So let me let me let it
know that.
Um, so for users to be able to view
business details and its reviews, the
client is going to make a git request
with the business ID. The API gateway
will route that to my business service,
which will then construct a query of my
business DB where I have two tables in
there that are relevant, the business
table and the review table respectively.
And so this query will join the reviews
of a given business ID with the
information for the business all for the
ID that was in my parameter of my API
request. and we'll return that full
payload back to the client. Um,
yeah.
Now, the reason I was pausing there is
because I remembered in our API we split
those up. Um, I think it'll still be
happy with this because it was happy
enough with it with my pageionation, but
um, that's what had me stalling there at
the end. Technically speaking, I should
have had those as two different API
requests. Um,
yeah. I mean, that's a fair enough one.
We should We should know what time these
reviews came in. That's pretty
important.
So, let me just add that for later.
Created at And what else did it say
here? Consider showing the join on the
whiteboard. Nah, screw that. Talking
about it, I think, was fine in an
interview. You don't need to even be
writing these SQL queries. This was me
just being more illustrative for you
guys who are following along. Um, okay.
Next question. How will users be able to
leave reviews on businesses? Cool. So,
now we have that API post request. I'm
going to have that go to a different
review service. The reason being here
that there's a it can scale
independently. It has a different
pattern. There's far fewer reviews being
written than there are businesses being
searched for and viewed. And so later
on, we'll be able to scale this one up
horizontally a lot while keeping fewer
instances of this one. That's my
justification for having them separate.
And then I am going to just write
directly to this database, the review
table. So review post comes in, we'll
write to the database. Maybe I'll call
this primary DB now because it's not
just reviews. You might be asking why do
I have this as one database and like
shouldn't there be two and microservices
writing to the same one and no that's a
that's a bunch of hoopla.
um does it make sense in certain cases
for isolation and for fall tolerance and
uh yeah of course but in this case
there's a direct relationship between my
businesses and my reviews and there's
only 10 million businesses there's not a
lot of data so why would I split these
into two different databases to do a
cross database join when I can just let
my database handle it in fact I've
probably made a decision here that this
is just a SQL database I'm going to go
with Postgress so I'll label it um okay
let's let it know and in order to create
review users are going to issue the post
request from the client which is going
to let us know the business ID that they
want to review as well as within the
post body of course the rating and the
optional text. The API gateway will
route this post request to our review
service which will then create a new row
in our primary database for this given
review.
Easy enough, right?
Let's get that feedback. I have a
feeling this one's going to be fine. But
then we got our our deep dives which
should be a lot more fun.
I'm on the right track. A crap. I blew
it. Huh? What did I do?
Oh yeah, cuz I I had talked I screwed
myself because earlier I talked about
how I needed authentication, right?
Okay. No validation mentioned to ensure
reviews data is valid such as checking
that the rating falls within the
accepted range. It's honestly valid. I
was going a little too easy, huh?
Okay, fair enough. Um, I'm not going to
record it again because I don't want to
sit here and make you guys listen to me
do that, but I think this is decent
feedback. I explicitly talked about
authentication in my APIs. So, for me to
not bring it up here is isn't great. I
would need to say that my API gateway is
probably doing that authorization and
authentication in order to ensure that I
can actually post a review. Um, and then
this this validation seems reasonable.
Yeah, I mean, we definitely would want
some server side validation here to make
sure that our ratings are between one
and five, that it's mandatory. Um, fair
enough. Okay, I'm no longer perfect.
What are you going to do? Huh? Uh, all
right. Our first deep dive question. So,
how would we efficiently calculate and
update the average rating for businesses
to ensure that it's readily available in
search results and still accurate up to
the minute? Okay, so we added this
average rating here, right? But how do
we keep this up to date is the main
question. Um, well, let's talk about
this. There's there's a couple ways that
we can do this. I've seen candidates
answer this different ways in
interviews, too. And a real common way
that candidates like to do this is they
like to throw down like a message cue.
They like to throw down a message queue
here and say all reviews come into a
message queue and then we have some
worker that aggregates periodically or
some consumer that aggregates and
updates the the average rating
periodically. Um personally I think
that's overkill and we can do some math
maybe to prove that. Like if I have 10
million businesses and each business
realistically has like honestly there's
probably not no more than uh five a day.
So that's 5 million uh 5 million reviews
and then we divide that by 100,000
seconds in a day. We're talking about a
few a second. So I'm not too worried
about this. So there's no reason that
I'd be worried about buffering it in a
message queue. Another thing I see
candidates do a lot is that like they'll
have a cron job here and they'll just
run a cron job daily to update these
reviews. Actually, I think that this is
pretty realistic. Um there's like
realistic trade-offs here in that do I
really want my um average rating
changing all the time? Like what if a
user refreshes their page and the
average rating changed? Is that a good
experience or do we want to just update
it once every night? Well, the question
told us up to the minute. So, I think
this isn't going to fly, at least for
our use case. Um, so what I would do,
and I'm not going to overthink this, is
that I'm just going to say numbum
ratings,
right? And then every time a new review
comes in, when I write that review, I'm
going to do this in a transaction. So,
my transaction is going to ensure that
this all happens in SQL at once. Um, and
if anything fails, the whole thing rolls
back. But I'm basically going to add the
review to the table. Add the review to
the review table. And then I'm going to
update the num ratings. And then I'm
going to calc
rating. And that's just some math,
right? I'm just going to take the
current average plus whatever my new one
is divided by whatever my num ratings is
plus one, right? For the new one. So
it's going to basically look something
like that. Um, cool. I've explained that
to you guys. Now, let me explain it to
it really quickly.
Um, so I I think that we don't need to
do overkill here in that anything like a
message cue for example would be
unnecessary because we only have a
couple reviews that come in a second and
so my Postgress database can absolutely
handle that many writes and I can just
do this directly on the fly via a
transaction. So when a new review comes
in my review service is going to
construct a transaction to my database
which is going to do three things. It's
going to add that new review row, but
then it's also going to take the current
average ratings, add whatever our new
average is to it or take our current
average ratings, multiply it by the
total number of ratings that we have, um
add our new our new rating that just
came in and then divide it by the new
number of total ratings. So basically
the old num ratings plus one. And then
we can write that new average rating and
that new numbum ratings again all via
transaction. This will make sure that
anytime somebody posts a new review, um,
the review gets added, so too does the
average rating.
I'm a bit more verbose there, honestly,
than I would like to be, but what are
you going to do? This is all one take.
Nothing's practiced here. The system
liked it. Great. We crushed it. You got
any feedback for me? I mentioned a
transaction. I could be more explicit
about how database transactions assure
atomicity when updating both the review
table. My interviewer understands that.
Consider mentioning how your system
would handle potential race conditions
if multiple users submit reviews the
same business.
That's why I have a transaction. Um it
can handle multiple transactions. That
shouldn't be an issue. So fair enough.
Might be something that some interviewer
cares about, but uh I feel good about
it. Next up, we got a follow-up question
here. How would my sister handle this?
How would my system handle the scenario?
Will multiple users submit reviews for
the same business simultaneously?
What mechanism would you put in place to
ensure data consistency?
Honestly, it's a good followup question.
I was kind of just dismissive of this a
moment ago, but yeah, we definitely need
some form of locking here. Um, so let me
talk to you guys before I talk to it.
Basically, the the issue here is that I
can have multiple transactions going on
at the same time. Um, but transaction B
that comes just after transaction A
might still be reading the old average
rating and the old num ratings because
the transaction A hasn't committed those
new values yet. And so transaction B
would overwrite the values of transition
A potentially. Um, and that's not good.
And so what we can do here is that we
can either use row locking. We can lock
the business while we do this update.
Uh, or we can use optimistic concurrency
control. Optimistic concurrency control
would basically be when we start the
transaction take note of the current
average rating and num ratings and at
the end of the transaction make sure
that it hasn't changed. If it changed
somebody kind of got in the way um and
we should roll back and try it again. So
either of those will work let me save
that to it. Uh so there's two things
that we can do within our transaction.
We can use row locking or pessimistic
locking where we lock the business row.
Importantly, we're just locking one row
in this case um at the start of the
transaction and then release that lock
at the end of the transaction. This way
we ensure that there's no conflicts when
users are updating reviews at the same
time. Alternatively, especially since we
don't have a high throughput of reviews
here, we could use optimistic
concurrency control where our version
quote unquote would be the average
rating and the numbum ratings. And so
we'll just check those in the beginning
of the transaction and then at the end
of the transaction we'll confirm that
those haven't changed. This would
confirm that nobody uh conflicted with
us and we can commit the transaction.
Otherwise, we would roll back and retry.
All right, let's see. Um, let's see what
it thinks. I don't want to get another
another not perfect here. I don't think
my ego can take it. Woohoo. Okay, it
likes it. We showed awareness of system
characteristics by noting optimistic
concurrency control. pessimistic was
good. All right, it likes it. Uh what do
we got next? How would you modify your
system to ensure that a user can only
leave one review per business? Right,
that was one of our constraints. Uh a
user can only review one review per
business. So the easy answer here would
be that we put some code in our
application logic. Maybe actually the
worst thing we could do is put some code
on our client where our client doesn't
allow you to submit a review unless you
um haven't posted one to that business
before. Now, don't get me wrong, we
should have that logic on our client,
but it alone isn't enough because
somebody can still just issue an API
request, right, and bypass your client.
So, that's not good. So, let's work our
way right. We could put it in the review
service, put some logic here to
basically say, first check if the user
has already created a review for this
business. If they did, throw an error.
If not, um, then then proceed. Um, and
that's okay. But let's provide a
hypothetical like that's one line of
code in your review service. What
happens if the company continues to
grow? There's now a new service that for
some reason writes reviews. They don't
know that you had that line of code and
maybe they don't respect it, right? Or
maybe like you just acquired another
company. um and that company is
backfilling their reviews or something
onto your system. I don't know where or
some data engineer is running a back
fill. Any of these things, they don't
know you had a line of code there. And
so it's not actually working right. And
so the key to to questions like this is
that you want to work your way right and
put that constraint as close to the
database or the persistence layer as
possible. And so what we can do is that
we can actually just put that constraint
directly on the database. And so in this
case, we can have a unique key on the
user ID and the business ID. And this
means that anytime a user tries to write
a review with a user ID or business ID
that already exists, it'll get an error.
Uh let me let it know that.
So what we can do here is we can just
create uh or we can ensure within our
database that user ID and business IDs
are unique. So we can put a unique
constraint on the user ID and the
business ID columns respectively. And
this will mean that any user that tries
to write a review for the same user ID
or the same business ID will fail at the
database level. We can propagate that
error back to them. Now, realistically,
we should also add some application
logic both in the review service and the
client so that users never get to this
point. Ideally, in the client, you can't
even submit a review. But of course,
people can bypass the client. Um, and so
we want to put this constraint on our
persistence layer as close to the data
as possible.
Okay, let's see how that went. Can we
finish strong here? I hope so.
No.
Good. Come on now. I correctly
identified database constraint.
Oh, come on. It just misunderstood me.
It says, I well, maybe I wasn't very
clear to be honest, but I thought it was
implied. I don't want a separate unique
constraint on user ID and business ID.
Obviously, I want a composite unique
constraint on the two of them. I thought
I said that, but maybe I wasn't very
clear.
Consider clarifying how I would handle
users when someone attempts to submit
duplicate reviews. Yeah, give them an
error or something. I'll be clear there.
All right, fair enough. They got me. Um,
I thought I said it. What are you going
to do? All right, we got another deep
dive here. How can you improve search to
handle complex queries? So this is back
to where we were earlier with this,
right? And so what we can do is we can
do a couple things. A common thing that
people will see is that elastic search
is something that we could introduce
here. Elastic search is a search
optimized database. And so it it's a
quote unquote NoSQL database by
definition of document store. And what
it does is it allows us to build things
like inverted indexes on the name. In
this case, we wouldn't need it on
category. And then also geospatial
indexes on things like latitude and
longitude. This is going to make things
really quick. So we could do this um and
we can have our searches instead go to
elastic search. But then we introduce a
little bit of an issue where these two
things need to remain consistent with
one another. And so you would introduce
oftentimes what's called CDC. Um, I
shouldn't say it's always called CDC,
but oftent times this is what you would
do to keep these two things consistent.
And that's that, uh, this introduces a
change stream off of your database. It
puts it into some message queue, you'd
have some lightweight consumer, and then
it makes the updates to elastic search.
And so a business updates, a new review
is added, the the change stream, you
know, will automatically kick that event
into a CFKA or something, then the
worker can process it and update elastic
search. So this is a a common strategy.
It would absolutely work. I'm not going
to do this though. I think it's
overkill. I don't want my engineering
team to have to learn a new technology
and all of these things. Um instead,
uh Postgress has some extensions. It
actually supports full text search out
of the box. So that's good. And then it
has PostJS,
the Postgis extension, which allows us
to do geospatial indexing. And so I'm
going to enable this. Um, and then all
of our queries are going to look a
little different than they were before.
They're going to use the full text query
semantics on name and they're going to
use the geospatial queries for latitude
and longitude, but it's going to ensure
that we have the proper indexes on these
columns that are more or less efficient
to search on. And it should ensure that
we get that less than 500 millisecond
latency. So let me say that. Um, now one
thing that we could do here is we could
introduce elastic search or search
optimized database, but this would mean
that we're going to have to keep our
primary database in elastic search
consistent, which would be fine. We
could do this via CDC. Um, but I don't
want my engineering team to have to
learn a new technology. And so instead,
Postgress has the PostGIS extension,
which will allow us to build geospatial
indexes on the latitude and longitude of
the businesses. And so I'm going to go
ahead and I'm going to do that. I'm
going to enable that extension. And then
Postgress also supports full text
search. And so now my searches will use
the inverted indexes supported by or the
jin indexes supported by full text
search as well as the inverted indexes
by postJS. And this should make my query
super efficient in less than 500
milliseconds without needing the
consistency issues of introducing
another data store.
Let's see.
What do you guys think? You think I got
it? This uh what are we at here? 36
minutes, one take. Great answer. Come on
now.
Come on now.
Consider explaining just indexes.
Whatever.
Could elaborate on my specific indexing
strategy. Full text search. I could
definitely if my interviewer asked about
it, I'd be happy to go into more detail.
It doesn't want to give me a follow-up
question for that though.
Multiple criteria.
Fair enough, honestly. But
yeah, a bit deep. If they asked to
follow up, I would definitely talk about
it. Um,
okay. Yeah, let's complete the practice.
All right, let's take a look at my
results here. So, I got a 95 out of 100
on my overall score. Not perfect. We saw
those two mistakes I made. What are you
going to do? Uh, pure average. So, other
people that chose senior who did Yelp,
um, uh, they got a 90% on average.
Pretty great. Good job to everybody. And
let's see, you can see my deep dive and
my high level design are where I was
lacking a little bit here, but I nailed
requirements, core entities, and API.
And then I got some key takeaways. And I
got my whiteboard down here. I'll uh
I'll link this whiteboard in the
description so you guys have it
afterwards. Um, sweet. Okay, I guess of
course you can try these yourself. So,
if you come over to hello.com/practice,
you can see we have plenty of these
easies, mediums, hards, there's a long
list of them for you to try. They're all
common system design interview
questions. People give really fantastic
feedback. They really enjoy them. I
enjoy doing them. I think they're a lot
of fun and a fun way to study system
design for your interviews. So, check it
out. Give it a go. Let me know what you
think. I hope this video was useful. I
know this was a different style um but I
can do more of these. This was easy for
me to record anyway. I did it in one
take and um I had a fun time doing it.
So, questions, thoughts, put them in the
comments. Um, I'll talk to you guys soon
and of course, good luck with your
upcoming interviews.